# NTAC meeting agenda (22 November 2022)

## Review and approve minutes

## Action item review

From 2020-11-15:

* [ ] Tom Carlson: Review existing NTAC repo to determine what should move over to new NIEM Open NTAC repo
* [ ] Dr. Scott: Meeting minutes approved, make corresponding updates, push new minutes

From 2020-11-08:

* [ ] Aubrey Beach: Remove Dee Schur from NTAC mailing list (retired)
* [ ] Jim Cabral: Will look at release BPMN diagrams and will work on updating terminology for OASIS
* [x] Tom Carlson: Send meeting notes to Dr. Scott
* [x] Scott Renner: Will work on meeting minutes for last week and this week
* [x] Tom Carlson: Add consider OASIS process for NIEM specs to next week's agenda

## OASIS release process

From Katherine Escobar:

* What to submit as a 1st candidate as a standard?
* Is there something beyond specs and the model?
* Can we get a full "OASIS Standard" out of it?
  * Requires public comment
  * Does the PGB want to go to that level or is a Project Specification good enough?
* What doesn't need a lot of change for 6.0 that we could run through the process?
* Are there NBAC artifacts we could use instead of NTAC ones?
  * "Project Notes" are different from a spec
  * Many NBAC artifacts might fall under "Project Notes"
* What about the training materials?
  * Somewhere in-between specs and high level NBAC papers
  * Stable for now, as to match the videos
  * Light lift, neither NTAC nor NBAC needs to do much

## Simple content and literal properties

* Discuss paper from last week, [Simple Content and Literal Properties](../2022-11-15/Literals-221124.md)

## NIEM 6

- Non-conformant subset schemas options:
  - Generate as EXTs to _mostly_ avoid the issue with minimal work?
  - New conformance target to completely avoid the issue with a bunch of work?

## New business
