# NTAC minutes, 6 December 2022

## [Teams meeting link](https://dod.teams.microsoft.us/l/meetup-join/19%3adod%3ameeting_027b8f8cd305438fbb0a76a1e7896d97%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22102d0191-eeae-4761-b1cb-1a83e86ef445%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2270ae69c4-ba53-4071-b60d-68a8b321854e%22%7d)

## [Agenda](2022-12-06-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [ ] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [x] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [x] Eric Jahn
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis

**Previous minutes:**  Minutes for [2022-11-29](2022-11-29-minutes.md)

## Action item review

**From 2022-11-29**

- [ ] Give Chet Ensign a list of names for the repos we need created
- [ ] Check that Duncan Sparrell is on the list

**From 2022-11-22**

- [ ] All, review Scott Renner dummy [NTAC-SPECIFICATIONS]() repo
- [ ] Get with Chet Ensign and see how we have to mash up the text to match the rules, some preamble,
- [ ] All, review literals document
- [x] Mike Douklias to schedule the calls on the OASIS calendar

**From 2022-11-15:**

- [x] Tom Carlson: Review existing NTAC repo to determine what should move over to new NIEM Open NTAC repo  

## OASIS

### New Repos

- Repos are created
  - Just `ntac-admin` right now
  - Minutes to be posted there going forward
- Are there lingering questions regarding which license to use for which repo?
  - Does Apache allow for charging or do OASIS rules preclude that via the CLA?
  - Apache does apply to patents
  - This decision doesn't prevent the creation of the repos
  - Are we fine with `cc-by` on everything?
  - [ ] Run it by [[Jim Cabral]] before committing
  - [ ] Need to run it by [[Katherine Escobar]] because she's the owner, ensure she can submit under that license

### Existing Repos

#### NTAC-Specific

- [NTAC](https://github.com/NIEM/NTAC)
  - 2020 Face-2-Face
    - Agenda
    - Notes
  - 2021 Face-2-Face
    - Agenda
  - Older (2 years) metamodel info
  - Initial re-write of the conformance spec
  - Move technical issues to the appropriate spec repos
  - Content issue to the release repos
  - [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] and [[Christina Medlin|CM]] to review issues
- [NBAC-NTAC-collaboration](https://github.com/NIEM/NBAC-NTAC-collaboration)
- [NIEM-Metamodel](https://github.com/NIEM/NIEM-Metamodel)
- Specs
  - [NIEM-HLVA-Spec](https://github.com/NIEM/NIEM-HLVA-Spec)
  - [NIEM-Code-Lists-Spec](https://github.com/NIEM/NIEM-Code-Lists-Spec)
  - [MPD-Spec](https://github.com/NIEM/MPD-Spec)
  - [NIEM-Conformance-Spec](https://github.com/NIEM/NIEM-Conformance-Spec)
  - [NIEM-NDR](https://github.com/NIEM/NIEM-NDR)
  - [NIEM-Conformance-Targets-Attribute-Spec](https://github.com/NIEM/NIEM-Conformance-Targets-Attribute-Spec)
- 

#### NTAC-Adjacent

- [NIEM-Releases](https://github.com/NIEM/NIEM-Releases)
- [NIEMTran](https://github.com/NIEM/NIEMTran)

### Spec Generation Tools License

- Assuming the tools cannot be contributed, what is the way ahead in a potential post-GTRI world?
  - Tools could still be made available outside OASIS
  - Convert to static Markdown as the source?
  - [[Dave Kemp]] Open C2 and supply chain, spec gen called [[JADN]]
- What the tools do:
  - Allow you to use the NDR as a conformance checking tool, using the embedded Schematron. Is that useful? Well… no.
  - Let you do M4 macros, primarily string replacement. So if some string is used a ton, you can put it in a macro and have it auto-replaced. Most of the macros, though, are only replaced once or maybe twice. It’s not leveraged much and a manual search/replace would do the same job.
  - Do all sorts of reference work. You tag things and refer to them elsewhere, and it generates the correct text for that taking into account dynamically generated section numbers. The NDR, especially, is heavily hyperlinked. This touches so many things: References to other documents, references to figures, references to the glossary.
- [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] check on the license dependencies for the things it's built on
- [ ] Make a subcommittee for this?
  - [[Tom Carlson]]
  - [[Christina Medlin]]
  - [[Duncan Sparrell]]
- #resolved Adding GPL is a PGB issue

## NIEM 5.2 RC 1

- [ ] All, informally review NIEM 5.2 RC 1 release, comments due by Tuesday

The PSD is not a public review. We just need the PGB to sign off on it.

[[Christina Medlin|CM]] Need to rethink how we use git. specific branch per release going forward
Does OASIS requires branches?
[[Chet Ensign]] Can continue using tags, need to point at something persistent
[[Duncan Sparrell]] Tags do that, better, too.
[[Eric Jahn]] Tags have some limitations

- [ ] [[Christina Medlin|CM]] and [[Tom Carlson]] (maybe [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]]) determine what the new NIEM model repo would look like

[[Duncan Sparrell]] Main thing is a link to something persistent

## Literals Document

- [literals document](../documents/Literals-221124.md)
- [[Literals-Dr-Scott]]

[[Duncan Sparrell]] What is this and where does it go?

Just for discussion, so won't go anywhere.
