# NTAC minutes, 8 November 2022

## [Agenda](2022-11-08-agenda.md)

## **Attending**

- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [x] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Lavdjola Farrington
- [x] Dave Hardy
- [x] Eric Jahn
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis

## **OASIS stuff**

- Who hasn't signed up yet? 

- - https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-ntactsc
  - If you don't sign up,      you won't be on the NTAC TSC

- Who hasn't signed their iCLA or eCLA 

- - If you don't sign them,      you won't be on the NTAC TSC
  - Duncan Sparrell: Need a      gatekeeper to determine who can be on it? Do we currently have it wide      open?

- PGB-related 

- - Jim Cabral will be the NTAC TSC voting representative
  - Mike Douklias (non-voting) liaison

- Mailing list status 

- - New list is running
  - Old list will bounce with a message about the new list
  - Only NTAC TSC members are on the mailing list, see above

- Meeting minutes 

- - How are we handling them going forward?
  - Agenda + recording for last week's call
  - Record decisions
  - [Guide for Facilitating Successful (Virtual) PGB or TSC Meetings](https://github.com/oasis-open-projects/documentation/blob/main/guides/planning-and-facilitating-meetings.md)

- Katherine Escobar is asking: 

  - Should we submit 5.2 through the OASIS process?
  - Or submit 5.0?
  - Ask Jim Cabral what is the typical process for providing to the PGB for decision
  - [Submitting Work for Standards Approval](https://github.com/oasis-open-projects/documentation/blob/main/guides/submitting-for-standards-approval.md)

## **CMF and CMFTool**

Dr. Scott is working on CMF and the CMF tool and hopes to push out updates this week. He's fixing bugs and updating the handling of simple content for metadata. Also thinks we won't need proxy types for 6.0 and should have a write-up explaining it for next week. Duncan mentioned that Dave Kemp (NSA) with the OpenC2 technical committee came up with something similar to CMF called JADN (JSON Abstract Data Notation Specification) for similar reasons (generate out as XML, JSON, RDF, etc.)

## **NIEM 6 issues**

We talked about non-conformant subset schemas. Current thoughts are to generate subset schemas as EXTs because a new conformance target would be a lot of work without a lot of value. Will revisit again later after people have more chance to consider it.  

## **Action items:**

- [ ] Aubrey Beach: Remove Dee Schur from NTAC mailing list (retired) 
- [ ] Jim Cabral: Will look at release BPMN diagrams and will work on updating terminology for OASIS 
- [ ] Tom Carlson: Send meeting notes to Dr. Scott
- [ ] Scott Renner: Will work on meeting minutes for last week and this week 
- [ ] Tom Carlson: Add consider OASIS process for NIEM specs to next week's agenda

