# NTAC minutes, 24 January 2023 (draft)

## [Agenda](2023-01-10-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kelly Cullinane
- [ ] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [x] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-01-17](2023-01-17-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## NIEM Open Process Document

We are converting the initial disucssion paper into a project note (non-standards-track).  Jim Cabral and Christina Medlin are editors.  Collaborate on the ntac-admin repo; post issues, or contribute text through pull requests.  No timetable for completion yet.

**Resolved:** To recommend the PGB choose "NIEMOpen", not "NIEM Open", as the term used for the open project on all project web pages â€“ after much discussion:

* Both forms appear on existing pages.  "NIEMOpen" is the original; "NIEM Open" may be a mistake
* "NIEM Open" creates ambiguity; is it the "NIEM Open" process or the "NIEM" open process?
* Don't change the repo names to insert a space

## NDR 6 Planning

The NDR has always been a critical document for a major release.  Jim Cabral proposes simplifying NDR 6.0 by focusing on the critical conformance targets, streamlining the principles and combining rules where possible, and keeping Schematron for conformance use, but not embedded in the NDR text.

The scope of those changes provides an opportunity to abandon the existing specification generation toolset and switch to Markdown.  Several advantages discussed:

- Probably takes fewer resources than collating changes, editing the current source, then generating HTML, then applying formatting
- Removes dependency on GTRI to edit specs
- Removes any issues about tool licenses
- Follows same process for other specs

Duncan Sparrel asked whether we need a finished NDR for the domains to do their work?  Scott Renner said the domains can do most/all of their work on business semantics without the NDR.  Christina Medlin said the NDR needs to be nailed down by summer.

Scott Renner sees three issues under NDR 6 planning:

1. Should NDR 6 cover everything, or should it be the NDR for XML?
2. Should the NDR retain Schematron as the normative expression of machine-assessable rules?
3. Should we retain or replace the specification generation toolset?

**Resolved:  **Request creation of the "common-model-format" repository.  Scott Renner to contribute existing version of CMF.

## Literals and Attribute Augmentations

Proposed fix via an approach to ISM attributes that will work equally well for anyone else who needs attribute augmentations: [[AttributeAugmentations-230105]]

- [ ] All: Read the document, comments to [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]]
  - Focus on attribute wildcards
  - [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Setting up a 2nd way to do augs, 2 ways to do the same thing, allowing attribute wildcards open the question of why don't we do that for elements?
    - On literals still an issue
    - [[Scott Renner]] From F2F, make it an object if you want that
  - [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] Christina is way ahead of me.  I will propose a way to use wildcards for element augmentations as well.
  - [[David Kemp|Dave Kemp]] Don't have the security markings at the lowest level of granularity. There's a floor below which you don't want to apply them.

## Other Items

- CMF and JADN Discussion: not discussed
- TSC Roster:  [[Jim Cabral]] PGB needs to formalize who is in the TSC, then document the roster

## New Business

- Scott Renner mentioned a new discussion paper:  *Understanding the NIEM technical architecture*.  Will be mailed to the NTAC list.  He asked for questions/comments via email for now.

## Action item review

**From 2022-12-20**

- [ ] Assess asset/artifact inventory; determine who "owns" which artifacts
  - In the future

