# NTAC minutes, 3 January 2023 (draft)

## Attending

The list of attendees is not available.

## **Previous minutes:**  

Minutes for 2022-12-20 were not available.  We discussed Tom Carlson's meeting notes and agreed they described the meeting.  We also agreed not to make a practice of this.

## Literals Document

Further discussion of [Simple content and literal properties](../documents/Literals-221124.md).  Christina Medlin observed we can't remove all attributes from CSC types without breaking IC-ISM.  Scott Renner said the way we implemented ISM in NIEM 3.0 was a hack, and undertook to propose a clean fix to augment any type with attributes, while still avoiding ugly JSON.  He also undertook to find out what the IC is doing for classification markings on JSON data

## NIEM 6.0 Process

Intent is to publish NIEM 6.0 by the end of 2023.  After considerable discussion, agreed this means publishing a collection of Project Specifications.  In NIEM Classic we would call that collection a "NIEM Release".  in OASIS a release is something different.  We have not agreed on the noun to use.  Perhaps "NIEM Collection 6.0"?  "NIEM Version 6.0"?

Mike Douklias and Scott Renner called for a workplan with milestone dates that ends with successful NIEM 6.0 publication in December 2023.  In DoD speak this is a "POAM" (Plan of Action and Milestones).  Duncan Sparrell said we should work backwards from the last PGB meeting (2023-12-12). Need to get to PGB at least 2 weeks before. (Not a review period. It's an announcement period. Reviews are for "Standards").  PSDs are where you get the community feedback.

- 6.0 release by end of 2023
  - [[Duncan Sparrell]] Which "release"
  - [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] [[PSD]]?
  - [[Duncan Sparrell]] Go for [[PS]]. Would have multiple PSDs by that time.
  - [[Jim Cabral]] Target a PS.
  - [[Christina Medlin|CM]] For timeline, are we talking then an OASIS Standard in 2024? Yes.
- [[POAM]] get the steps down in an OASIS context
- [[Katherine Escobar]] Classic release at end of 2023?
- [[Duncan Sparrell]] "Release" is rougher than a PSD. PS is we've agreed; we're done. Standard is it's being used.
- [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] What's the word for a collection of PSes that would be a classic "release"?
- [[Duncan Sparrell]] What about "NIEM Collection 6.0"?
- [[Katherine Escobar]] "NIEM Version 6.0"?
  - [ ] All think on a good noun
- [[Duncan Sparrell]] Some projects make an "architecture document" as a wrapper of all the PSes
- [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] Isn't that the conformance specification
- [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Group release?
- [[Duncan Sparrell]] That's only for software.

Bottom line: Producing a number of PSes as a "collection" or whatever.

- [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] Need a workplan of steps and milestones ([[POAM]])
- [[Mike Douklias]] Work backwards from close to the end of the year
- [[Duncan Sparrell]] work backwards from the last PGB meeting (2023-12-12). Need to get to PGB at least 2 weeks before. (Not a review period. It's an announcement period. Reviews are for "Standards")
  - PSDs are where you get the community feedback
- [[Christina Medlin|CM]] What about valid changes between PS and the standard. Supplements are fine.
- [[Katherine Escobar]] Core and domains as separate PSDs?
- [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Domains are dependent on each other.

- [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Can we put 5.2 as an early alpha as 6.0. Not splitting across repos allows for easier `diff`-ing

## Action item review

**From 2022-12-20**

- [ ] Assess asset/artifact inventory; determine who "owns" which artifacts
  - In the future

**From 2022-12-13**

- [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] to modify CTAS format
  - Template provided
  - Will work on this week
  - Meeting with [[Chet Ensign]] this week to talk over any issues

**From 2022-12-06**

- [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] and [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Determine what the new NIEM model repo should look like
  - Ongoing
  - Should have a recommendation next week

**From 2022-11-22**

- [ ] Get with [[Chet Ensign]] and see how we have to mash up the text to match the rules, some preamble, for the specs to match OASIS requirements
  - Tentative meeting scheduled in January to address any issues that arise

