# 2023-01-17 NTAC Meeting Agenda

[NTAC Calendar](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-ntactsc/calendar)

[Teams meeting link](https://dod.teams.microsoft.us/l/meetup-join/19%3adod%3ameeting_027b8f8cd305438fbb0a76a1e7896d97%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22102d0191-eeae-4761-b1cb-1a83e86ef445%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2270ae69c4-ba53-4071-b60d-68a8b321854e%22%7d)

## Review and Approve Minutes

- [Minutes for 2023-01-10](2023-01-10-minutes.md)

## PS/PSD/Standard Process Recommendation Discussion

- Original document:
	- [[NIEM Open Deliverable Strategy]]/[NIEM Open Deliverable Strategy](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/documents/niemopen-deliverable-strategy.md)
- [[Jim Cabral]] commented version:
	- [niemopen-deliverable-strategy-jec.md](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/documents/niemopen-deliverable-strategy-jec.md)
- [[Duncan Sparrell]] comments via listserv

## Literals

- Prior materials:
	- Comments: [[2022-12-13 NTAC TSC Call#Literals Document]]
	- [literals document](https://github.com/iamdrscott/NTAC-DRAFT/blob/main/meetings/2022-11-15/Literals.md)
	- [[Literals-Dr-Scott]] (local copy)
- How do we handle:
	- Security markings?
		- Have the [[ISM]] folks done anything with JSON?
	- Code lists?

[[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] NIEM 3 was a hack, but brings ugly JSON now, fix with a way to augment any type with attributes and elements

Proposed fix via an approach to ISM attributes that will work equally well for anyone else who needs attribute augmentations: [[AttributeAugmentations-230105]]

## NDR 6 Planning

- Work needed to be done
- [[Jim Cabral]]: Simplified by focusing on the critical conformance targets, streamlining the principles and combining rules where possible.

## Items from Prior Calls

- CMF and JADN Discussion
	- Pros and cons
	- Suitable for production?
	- Timelines, is it worth considering for NIEM 6.0?
- Process for proposals of large-scale changes
- TSC Roster

## Action item review

**From 2022-12-20**

- [ ] Assess asset/artifact inventory; determine who "owns" which artifacts
	- In the future

**From 2022-12-13**

- [x] [[Tom Carlson]] to modify CTAS format

**From 2022-12-06**

- [x] [[Tom Carlson]] and [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Determine what the new NIEM model repo should look like

**From 2022-11-22**

- [x] Get with [[Chet Ensign]] and see how we have to mash up the text to match the rules, some preamble, for the specs to match OASIS requirements
