# 2023-01-10 NTAC TSC Call Agenda

## Attendees

- TBD

## Review and Approve Minutes

- [Minutes](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/meetings/2022-01-03-minutes.md)
	- Not yet available

## Process

### Repo Organization Recommendations

- Keep existing structure with separate repos for the model, plus one for each specification's work product
	- Tags for specific PSD/PS milestones
- One consolidation point for
	- Schema files
	- HTML versions of final specifications
	- [https://docs.oasis-open.org/](https://docs.oasis-open.org/) under a new `niem` directory
		- STIX example: [https://docs.oasis-open.org/cti/](https://docs.oasis-open.org/cti/)

### PS/PSD/Standard Process Recommendation

- Christina Medlin and  Tom Carlson

### NIEM 5.2

- What to do with NIEM 5.2 in an OASIS context?
	- Contribute 5.2 as a PSD/PS
	- Contribute 5.2 as 6.0 alpha 0

## Literals Document

- New comments?

## CMF and JADN

- Discussion
	- Pros and cons
	- Suitable for production?
	- Timelines, is it worth considering for NIEM 6.0?

## New Business

- Attribute augmentation and ISM paper to discuss next week from Dr. Scott
- Process for proposals of large-scale changes

## Action item review

**From 2022-12-20**

- [ ] Assess asset/artifact inventory; determine who "owns" which artifacts
	- In the future

**From 2022-12-13**

- [x] Tom Carlson to modify CTAS format

**From 2022-12-06**

- [ ] Tom Carlson and Christina Medlin Determine what the new NIEM model repo should look like

**From 2022-11-22**

- [x] Get with Chet Ensign and see how we have to mash up the text to match the rules, some preamble, for the specs to match OASIS requirements
