# NTAC minutes, 31 January 2023 (draft)

## [Agenda](2023-01-31-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kelly Cullinane
- [ ] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [x] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-01-24](2023-01-24-minutes.md) were approved without change.

Kelly is our new OASIS primary staff contact

## PGB Recap

* Approved by the PGB:
  - Charter Amendment regarding contribution of NIEM tools
  - TSC Expert Voting Members aapointed by TSC on a rotating basis
  - TSC co-chairs are invited to attend PGB meetings
  - TSCs can approve TSC memberships (PGB can remove)
  - TSCs can create new repos
  - CTAS as PSD; will be proposed as PS by the project chair
* PGB also decided :
  - NIEM 5.2 will published at niem.gov and contributed to niemopen/niem-model repo
  - TSCs will issue NIEM 6.0 under the OP
  - NBAC will establish Domain subcommittees

## CMF and JADN

* David Kemp:  Will explore generating JADN from NIEM 5 XSD.  What needs to be in JADN that is not in CMF?  David will bring proposals to NTAC when ready
* *Resolved*:  CMF will be the new modeling formalism in NIEM 6

## NIEMOpen Publication Process document

* Draft in OASIS format is now available at ntac-admin repo
* Need a new section for domain updates (after minor versions)
* Tooling is not part of NIEM version; need to describe relationship in this document
* Tag format for versions pre-OASIS and post-OASIS.
* *Resolved:* 
  * Plain number for the latest "blessed" versions; e.g. "5.2", "6.0"
  * Use semantic versioning as needed, for errata; e.g. "6.0.1"
  * Use additional hyphen-tags for OASIS-specific tags; e.g. "6.0-psd1" for the first PSD
  * Same tagging style for technical specifications


## Understanding the NIEM Technical Architecture Document

* Send comments and questions to Dr. Scott.
* If this document reflects the NTAC consensus, perhaps turn into a Project Note.

## NDR 6 Planning

- Proposal to simplify by
  - focusing on the critical conformance targets
  - streamlining the principles and combining rules where possible
  - keeping Schematron for conformance use, but not embedded in the NDR
- Scope of changes provides an opportunity to abandon the specification generation toolset
- Timeline: Need the normative content nailed down by summer

## Action item review

**From 2023-01-24**

- [x] Request creation of a repo for "common-model-format", then [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] to contribute something

**From 2022-12-20**

- [ ] Assess asset/artifact inventory; determine who "owns" which artifacts
  - In the future

