# NTAC minutes, 10 January 2023 (draft)

## [Agenda](2023-01-10-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [x] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [x] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis

## **Previous minutes:**  

Minutes for [2023-01-03](2023-01-03-minutes.md) were approved.

## Repo Organization Recommendations

Tom Carlson and Christina Medlin proposed one repo for each technical specification, plus one repo for the NIEM model that follows the organization of the [existing model repo](https://github.com/NIEM/NIEM-Releases).  Specific PSD and PS milestones would be marked with tags.  In addition, NTAC would maintain one consolidation point for schema files and HTML versions of final specifications.  (STIX example:Â [https://docs.oasis-open.org/cti/](https://docs.oasis-open.org/cti/))

*Resolved:* This is fine

- [ ] Ask OASIS to create the needed repos
- [ ] Ask OASIS to change the name of "niem-models" to "niem-model"

## PS/PSD/Standard Process Recommendation

We discussed the [NIEM Open Deliverable Strategy](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/documents/niemopen-deliverable-strategy.md) drafted by Tom Carlson and Christina Medlin.  Members agreed to review and comment on that document in the coming week.

## NIEM 5.2

Discussion on what to do with NIEM 5.2 in an OASIS context?  Contribute 5.2 as a PSD/PS?  Contribute 5.2 as 6.0 alpha 0?  Options are outlined in [OASIS NIEM 5.2 Release Issues](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/documents/oasis-niem-5.2-release-issues.md)

## CTAS

CTAS 3.0 has been contributed to the [OASIS repo](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-conformance-targets) in HTML and PDF format.  Co-chairs will ask for a PGB vote as a PSD at the next PGB meeting, and will arrange for proper notice on the PGB mailing list.

## Adjourned

Meeting was adjourned at this point.  Literals document, CMF and JADN, new business, action item review were not covered.

## Action item review

**From 2022-12-20**

- [ ] Assess asset/artifact inventory; determine who "owns" which artifacts
  - In the future

**From 2022-12-13**

- [x] [[Tom Carlson]] to modify CTAS format

**From 2022-12-06**

- [x] [[Tom Carlson]] and [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Determine what the new NIEM model repo should look like

**From 2022-11-22**

- [x] Get with [[Chet Ensign]] and see how we have to mash up the text to match the rules, some preamble, for the specs to match OASIS requirements

