# NTAC minutes, 22 November 2022

## [Agenda](2022-11-22-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [x] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis

**Previous minutes:**  Minutes for [2022-11-15](2022-11-15-minutes.md) were approved.

## Action item review

**From 2022-11-15:**

- [ ] [[Tom Carlson]]: Review existing NTAC repo to determine what should move over to new NIEM Open NTAC repo  

**From 2022-11-08:**

- [x] [[Aubrey Beach]]: Remove [[Dee Schur]] from NTAC mailing list (retired)
  - referred to [[Chet Ensign]]
- [x] [[Jim Cabral]]: Will look at release [[BPMN]] diagrams and will work on updating terminology for [[OASIS]] 
- [x] [[Tom Carlson]]: Send meeting notes to [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]]
- [x] [[Scott Renner]]: Will work on meeting minutes for last week and this week  
- [x] [[Tom Carlson]]: Add consider OASIS process for NIEM specs to next week's agenda

## OASIS release process

From [[Katherine Escobar]]:

- What to submit as a 1st candidate as a standard?
- Is there something beyond specs and the model?
- Can we get a full "OASIS Standard" out of it?
  - Requires public comment
  - Does the PGB want to go to that level or is a Project Specification good enough?
- What doesn't need a lot of change for 6.0 that we could run through the process?
- Are there NBAC artifacts we could use instead of NTAC ones?
  - "Project Notes" are different from a spec (are these the open project form of "committee notes" for non-normative things)
  - Many NBAC artifacts might fall under "Project Notes"
- What about the training materials?
  - Somewhere in-between specs and high level NBAC papers
  - Stable for now, as to match the videos
  - Light lift, neither NTAC nor NBAC needs to do much
  - Accepted public comments incorporated into future versions

[[Jim Cabral]]: Any previous specs that we aren't looking for changes for should not be run through OASIS.
[[Katherine Escobar]]: Don't have to accept changes. Just ack and respond. Can reject or save for a future release.
[[Jim Cabral]]: Not following the spirit of OASIS if we don't accept changes. Maybe 5.2?
[[Christina Medlin|CM]] & [[Katherine Escobar]]: Point releases as "standards", minors, 5.1, 5.2 
[[Jim Cabral]]: Save the final minor release for OASIS standards, because it'll be well baked by then, avoids dot-oh releases
[[Christina Medlin|CM]]: But the underlying tech doesn't change for minor releases

[[Jim Cabral]]: Target 5.2 for an OASIS Standard? This is the decision we need to make now.
[[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]]: Can we delay 6.0?
[[Katherine Escobar]]: Nope.
[[Christina Medlin|CM]]: We can't change the NDR for 5.2, so we can't apply some feedback

[[Jim Cabral]]: Once we have a repo, add them to the OASIS repo, maintainer makes sure things are ready to go

#resolved Take 5.2 to the project spec level

[[Jim Cabral]]: Take 5.0 and 5.1 there even earlier?

(We can apply some formatting to the earlier specs to make them in the OASIS format.)

[[Jim Cabral]]: Need new repos for things with new IPR rules.

- [ ] All, review [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] demo repo
- [ ] Get with [[Chet Ensign]] and see how we have to mash up the text to match the rules, some preamble,
- [ ] All, review [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] minutes repo
- [ ] All, review literals document

[[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]]: Combine all the specs into one giant document?

### IP

[[Jim Cabral]]: What's the IP around the spec vs the Schematron in the spec?
Also, the spec generation tools, and the spec sources, contribute but make a release

- [ ] [[Tom Carlson]]: Look at the current licensing for the spec generation tools, can we just fork and contribute

## NIEM 6.0

- Non-conformant subset schemas options:
  - Generate as EXTs to _mostly_ avoid the issue with minimal work?
  - [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] Would this break anything?
  - [[Christina Medlin|CM]]: Need to tweak some NDR text
  - New conformance target to completely avoid the issue with a bunch of work?

#resolved Change subset to EXT, test

## New Business

- [ ] [[Mike Douklias]] to schedule the calls on the OASIS calendar

[[Mike Douklias]]: Teams meeting does not have all the NTAC TSC members. Need to create a new one in OASIS and put the new link in the calendar, or put the link in the agenda that goes out.
