# NTAC minutes, 25 October 2022

[Agenda](2022-10-25-agenda.md)

* Discussion of PGB meeting.  TSC chairs were appointed, also repo maintainers.  For NTAC:
  * Co-chairs:  Jim Cabral, Scott Renner
  * Maintainers:  Tom Carlson, Christina Medlin (primary); Aubrey Beach, Mike Douklias, Shunda Louis (alternates)
  * NTAC voting iasion to PGB is TBD
* NTAC battle rhythm -- historically:
  * monthly recap (but not recently)
  * weekly working group
  * co-chair calls twice a month
  * NBAC/NTAC co-chair joint meeting collab monthly
* NTAC battle rhythm -- going forward:
  * Keep the weekly NTAC meeting
  * No bi-weekly co-chair call; send email or pick up phone as needed
  * NBAC/NTAC co-chair meetings as needed when specific topics arise
  * Draft agenda to co-chairs by Monday noon, sent to mailing list by Monday close.
* Things to do in addition to business as usual:
  * Appoint people to NTAC
  * Turn off old mailing list
  * Arrange for meeting minutes
  * If we posted agenda and a link to a recording of meeting would meet the requirements
  * Be more formal with agenda, with "New Business" section
  * Keep on the NTAC Github?
  * Do we need to document who is on each call?

