# Draft Agenda

## Attendees

- TBD

## Review and Approve Agenda

- [Agenda](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/meetings/2022-12-20-agenda.md)

## Review and Approve Minutes

- [Minutes](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/meetings/2022-12-13-minutes.md

## Literals Document

- Comments from last week [[2022-12-13 NTAC TSC Call#Literals Document]]
- [literals document](https://github.com/iamdrscott/NTAC-DRAFT/blob/main/meetings/2022-11-15/Literals.md)
- [[Literals-Dr-Scott]] (local copy)
- How do we handle:
	- Security markings?
		- Have the [[ISM]] folks done anything with JSON?
	- Code lists?

## Proposed Recommendations to PGB

1. NTAC recommends adoption by the PGB of the following Standing Rules:
    1. NIEMOpen PGB Expert Voting Members from TSCs may be appointed by the TSCs on an annual or semi-annual rotating basis.
    2. TSC chairs are invited to attend PGB meetings in expert voting member or non-voting member status as appropriate.
    3. The PGB delegates TSCs the authority to manage and administer TSC memberships in accordance with Open Project Rules.

2. NTAC recommends the following approach for initial project artifacts:
    1. NTAC will prepare the NIEM Conformance Targets Specification for approval as a Project Specification (PS).
    2. The TSCs will issue NIEM Release 5.2 under the former NIEM release process and transfer the assets to the Open Project.
    3. The TSCs will develop and issue NIEM Release 6.0 under the new Open Project release process for approval as a Project Specification (PS) and OASIS Standard (OS).

## Release/Model Repos

- Repo format pending recommendation from [[Christina Medlin|CM]] and [[Tom Carlson]]
- CTAS pushed to repo
	- Formatting pending template

## Action item review

**From 2022-12-13**

- [x] [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] to contribute Conformance Target spec to `niem-conformance-targets` repo on the `main` branch and do pull request
- [x] [[Tom Carlson]] or [[Christina Medlin]] to approve
- [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] to modify format
	- Template requested, awaiting response

**From 2022-12-06**

- [x] Create _ad-hoc_ committee for spec generation tool license issues
- [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] and [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Determine what the new NIEM model repo should look like

**From 2022-11-22**

- [ ] Get with [[Chet Ensign]] and see how we have to mash up the text to match the rules, some preamble, for the specs to match OASIS requirements
	- Tentative meeting scheduled in January to address any issues that arise
- [ ] All, review literals document
