# 2023-04-18 NTAC TSC Call Agenda

NTAC calendar: https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-ntactsc/calendar

NTAC meeting link on Teams: https://dod.teams.microsoft.us/l/meetup-join/19%3adod%3ameeting_027b8f8cd305438fbb0a76a1e7896d97%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22102d0191-eeae-4761-b1cb-1a83e86ef445%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2270ae69c4-ba53-4071-b60d-68a8b321854e%22%7d

## Agenda items

1. Review and approve minutes: [2023-04-11 minutes (draft)](2023-04-11-minutes.md)
2. Publication Process Project Note
3. Wildcard Augmentations
4. Technical Architecture Project Note
5. NDR Overhaul
6. Tools and Software Build Automation
7. CMFTool repository

## Additional Notes

### Publication Process Project Note

- Still collecting NBAC feedback
- [ ] Add a reference to the process for OASIS standards:
  - https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/open-projects-process/#oasis-standard-approval-external-submissions
- [ ] [[Christina Medlin|CM]] to take a stab at a roadmap

### Wildcard Augmentations

- [Wildcard Augmentations discussion board](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/32)
- Status of next CMF version:
  - Will have attribute wildcards, but not element ones.
  - Augmentation instead of metadata attributes
- [ ] [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] to incorporate latest changes in the CMFTool

### Technical Architecture Project Note

- Current status
  - Working Draft in the repo
    - https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/project-notes/docs/tech-arch-v1.0-pn02/tech-arch-v1.0-pn02.md

- Sections to add:
  - Interop happens at the Message Spec level
  - What does conformance mean?
  - Augmentation rationale
  - Rule-less principles moved from the NDR

### NDR Overhaul

- [NDR Principles discussion board](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/38)
- Which principles should move to Technical Architecture Project Note?
  - Principle 5
    - Removal still under consideration
    - Will be resolved this later after some language is drafted for it
  - Principle 11 and Principle 15
    - Edit as follows:
      - 11: Design for reusablilty
      - 15: Reuse if it exists
      - Change the section for 6.3.1 to be clearer

#### NDR Reorganization:

- [Current organization and initial cut at reorganization](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/42)
- [Markdown version of NDR](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/blob/dev/niem-ndr.md)

### Related Specs

- [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] to put JSON Spec in the `docs` folder for now
- [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] to request creation of repo as "conformance-specification"
- [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] to put [[CTAS]] in the existing repo
- [ ] [[Christina Medlin|CM]] to update Github landing page: https://github.com/niemopen/

### Tools and Software Build Automation

- [Digital Engineering discussion board](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/41)

### CMFTool

- Status?

## Action Item Review

- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Wildcard Augmentations
- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Technical Architecture Project Note
- [ ] NTAC TSC review of NDR Overhaul
