# NTAC minutes, 7 February 2023

## [Agenda](2023-02-07-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [ ] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kelly Cullinane
- [ ] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [x] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-01-31](2023-01-31-minutes.md) were approved without change

## Managing the NTAC

Needed: documented processes for managing technical contributions to the NTAC to ensure compliance with OASIS open-source rules.  Some ideas discussed:

- Kanban boards
- Github issues
- Return to monthly calls for committee administration, with weekly working group calls

*Resolved:*  a sub-committee to make recommendations for issue tracking; Christina Medlin and Tom Carlson appointed.

Several people observed that the NTAC has been spending much time on OASIS process, little time on technical issues, and this needs to change.

*Resolved:*  The NTAC intent is that OASIS admin issues will only be on the agenda for the first weekly call each month.  Other calls will be reserved for technical architecture issues.  But any topic can be added to any agenda with majority consent.

## NIEMOpen Publication Process

- [Latest draft available](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/documents/niem-pubs-v1.0-pn01/niem-pubs-v1.0-pn01.md)
- [Issues still to be incorporated](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/issues)
- Postponed until Jim Cabral can be present 

## Literals and Attribute Augmentations

- Superceded by a new paper, discussed in New Business below

## Understanding the NIEM Technical Architecture Document

This paper was intended to provide background information for new members, and also to document the consensus of former NTAC and present NTAC.  Attendees were asked for any objections to the paper contents; none heard.

*Resolved:*  Turn this paper into a Project Note.  

*Action:* Scott Renner to contribute current draft to ntac-admin repo, and provide next draft in OASIS format.

*Resolved:*  Create a new directory in ntac-admin repo for project notes.  Use the document directory for discussion papers not expected to become NTAC products.

## NDR 6 Planning

Postponed until Jim Cabral can be present.

## New Business

* A guide to repositories:  An organization README on github.com/niemopen may be suitable.  
  *Action:*  Christina Medlin to request the org README page from Kelly Cullinane

* Wildcard augmentations:  The *Attribute Augmentations and IC-ISM in NIEM 6* discussion paper has been overtaken by *Wildcard Augmentations in NIEM 6*.  The basic idea is to simplify NIEM 6 by using wildcards instead of substitution groups for augmentations, and to replace the metadata mechanism with augmentations.
  *Action:*  Scott Renner to distribute on NTAC mailing list, contribute to ntac-admin repo.
  *Action*: NTAC to review and discuss at a later meeting

* NIEM 6 timeline

  - 6.0 "alpha" out by when for feedback?

  - Maybe not have "alphas", instead get feedback via issues

  - "Beta" is the [[PSD]]

  - Summer for the timeframe?

  - Will model and NDR come out together?

  - Describe major architectural changes before then

Meeting adjourned.

