# NTAC minutes, 14 March 2023 (draft)

## [Agenda](2023-03-14-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-03-07](2023-03-07-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## Publication process project note

Latest material from Christina still awaiting review and comment.  There is a discussion topic #40.

*Resolved:* Use semantic versioning for core namespace and technical specifications, but not for domain namespaces.

*Resolved:* Additive changes to core will be added to the core namespace with a minor version bump; all domain namespaces will also need a minor version bump.

Scott Renner said we need a paper on forward and backward compatibility.  Writing the version number into the namespace identifier is good for some things, not for others.

## Wildcare augmenttions

Scott Renner said we don't need element wildcards to enforce augmentation cardinality in XSD after all.  Augmentation via substitution (as in NIEM 5) can't enforce cardinality *in the reference schema*, but it can be done in a *message schema*, and that's good enough.

## Technical architecture PN

Scott Renner said he would add two sections:  interoperability happens at the message specification level, and meaning of NIEM conformance.  Will ask NTAC to review when ready.

## NDR overhaul

There is a [discussion about NDR principles](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/38) at the repo.  Scott Renner said that the priniciples without accompanying rules might move into the technical architecture PN.

*Resolved:*  Two documents, with working titles:  "Common NDR" and "NDR for XML/JSON Representation".

Christina Medlin asked about the Schematron rules? Are they with the spec or separate? Do they go into a different software repo? Is a patch to the Schematron a new NDR version?  Jim Cabral said we should keep them separate â€“ rules in the NDR, with a Schematron file separately.

Action:  Ask OASIS about Schematron not embedded into the NDR Markdown

Jim Cabral Index the rules to the Schematron representation of said rules. Could be linked via a URI, but *need* the index, if only via Rule numbering.

Jim Cabral said we need to start breaking the NDR apart and outlining the individual documents.

## Tools and software build automation

There is a [discussion](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/41) at the repo.

## Action Item Review

- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Publication Process Project Note, esp [[Christina Medlin|CM]] comments
- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Wildcard Augmentations
- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Technical Architecture Project Note
