# NTAC minutes, 7 March 2023 (draft)

## [Agenda](2023-03-07-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [ ] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-02-28](2023-02-28-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## Publication Process project note

Christina Medlin contributed substantial new material today.  Still some issues to discuss.  Says OASIS and NBAC should review.  There is a discussion thread in the nbac-admin repo.

Duncan Sparrell said that the version and the stage of development are separate things.  We can have 6.0-PSD01, 6.0-PSD02, 6.0-PS, etc.  The "6.0" is the version number; align that to semver.  The "PSD01" is the stage of development and isn't a semver thing.

What is our development stage label for things that are Working Draft (WD) in the technical committees?

*Resolved:* we won't publish a version just so we can mark it deprecated.  That's a SHOULD in semver.

*Resolved:* authoritative source for structures.xsd etc. will be the schema document pile of the NIEM model, not the NDR PS.

## Wildcard augmentations

Ongoing discussion at ntac-admin repo, https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/32.  

Christina Medlin says that attribute wildcards give us a lot of new capability, but element wildcards don't appear to give us anything new.  Is the juice worth the squeeze?

Scott Renner said he will provide examples of how element wildcard add capability of precise cardinality constraints, but now suspects that Christina is right when she says we can already do that :-).

Scott Renner said that element wildcards can completely replace the metadata mechanism, and then there would no longer be two ways to do the same thing.  (But now thinks perhaps we can also replace the metadata mechism with attribute wildcards and the existing augmentation mechanism.)

## Technical architecture PN

[Latest draft](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/project-notes/docs/tech-arch-v1.0-pn02/tech-arch-v1.0-pn02.md).  Scott Renner said he would like to add two more sections, one to say that interoperability happens at the message specification (IEPD) level, another to describe NIEM conformance.  Everyone to review when available (not ready as minutes prepared).

## NDR

Markdown conversion nearly complete, can be seen at [temp display copy](https://github.com/TomCarlson-NTAC/ndr-tests/blob/main/ndr-test.md).  

*Resolved:*  The converted NDR to be contributed as 6.0-PSD01.

There is a new discussion in ntac-admin concerning the NDR principles.

## New business

Scott Renner said he will post a new discussion on CMFTool and software build automation for message specifications.

## Action Item Review

- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Publication Process Project Note, esp [[Christina Medlin|CM]] comments
- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Wildcard Augmentations
- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Technical Architecture Project Note
